# AI Chat Log

## Thursday 29th June: Swapping Content without Frames

* Prompt: How do use frames on my html website
* Answer
  * Frames are a way of dividing a web page into multiple smaller frames, each of which can contain a different HTML document. They were introduced in HTML 2.0, but they are now considered obsolete in HTML5. However, they can still be used in older browsers.
  * To use frames on your HTML website, you will need to use the <frameset> and <frame> tags. The <frameset> tag defines the layout of the frames, and the <frame> tag defines the contents of each frame.
  * The <frameset> tag has two attributes that you will need to use:
    * rows: This attribute defines the rows of the frameset. The values for this attribute can be either absolute values in pixels, percentages, or the wildcard symbol (*).
    * cols: This attribute defines the columns of the frameset. The values for this attribute are the same as for the rows attribute.
  * The <frame> tag has the following attributes:
    * src: This attribute specifies the URL of the HTML document that will be loaded into the frame.
    * name: This attribute assigns a name to the frame. This name can be used to target the frame with links.
    * rows: This attribute specifies the height of the frame.
    * cols: This attribute specifies the width of the frame.
    * noresize: This attribute prevents users from resizing the frame.
  * Here is an example of how to use frames in HTML:

    ``` html
        <html>
        <head>
        <title>My Framed Page</title>
        </head>
        <body>
        <frameset rows="200,*">
        <frame src="header.html" name="header">
        <frame src="main.html" name="main">
        </frameset>
        </body>
        </html>
    ```

  * This code will create a frameset with two rows. The first row will be 200 pixels high and will contain the header.html document. The second row will be the rest of the window and will contain the main.html document.
  * You can use frames to create a variety of different layouts for your web pages. However, it is important to note that frames are not supported by all browsers, and they are considered to be obsolete in HTML5. If you are creating a new web page, you should consider using other methods of layout, such as CSS flexbox or CSS grid.

* Prompt: In HTML 5, what should I use instead of frames?
* Answer
  * There are a few different options that you can use instead of frames in HTML5. These include:
    * CSS flexbox
      * CSS flexbox is a layout method that allows you to create flexible and responsive layouts. You can use CSS flexbox to create layouts that are similar to those that you could create with frames.
    * CSS grid
      * CSS grid is another layout method that allows you to create flexible and responsive layouts. CSS grid is a bit more complex than CSS flexbox, but it can be used to create more complex layouts.
    * JavaScript: 
      * You can also use JavaScript to create layouts that are similar to those that you could create with frames. JavaScript is a powerful language that can be used to do a variety of things, including creating custom layouts.
  * If you are creating a new web page, you should consider using one of these methods instead of frames. Frames are not supported by all browsers, and they are considered to be obsolete in HTML5.
  * Here are some of the reasons why frames are not recommended in HTML5:
    * Frames are not accessible: Frames can be difficult to navigate for users with disabilities.
    * Frames can be slow: Frames can slow down the loading of web pages.
    * Frames can be insecure: Frames can be used to create malicious websites.
  * If you are still using frames on your website, you should consider migrating to one of the other methods mentioned above. This will help to ensure that your website is accessible, secure, and performs well.

* Prompt: How do I use javascript to swap the html content of part of my website whilst keeping other sections intact?
* Answer
  * Sure, here is how you can use JavaScript to swap the HTML content of part of your website whilst keeping other sections intact:

    ``` javascript
        // Get the element that you want to swap the content of.
        var element = document.getElementById("my-element");

        // Create a new element with the content that you want to swap in.
        var newElement = document.createElement("div");
        newElement.innerHTML = "<p>This is the new content.</p>";

        // Replace the old element with the new element.
        element.replaceChild(newElement, element.firstChild);
    ```

  * This code will first get the element that you want to swap the content of. Then, it will create a new element with the content that you want to swap in. Finally, it will replace the old element with the new element.
  * Here is an explanation of the code:
    * The ```document.getElementById()``` method gets the element with the specified ID.
      * In this case, the ID of the element that we want to swap the content of is ```my-element```.
    * The ```document.createElement()``` method creates a new element.
      * In this case, we are creating a new ```div``` element.
    * The ```innerHTML``` property of an element contains the HTML content of the element.
      * In this case, we are setting the innerHTML property of the new div element to the content that we want to swap in.
    * The ```replaceChild()``` method replaces one child of an element with another child.
      * In this case, we are replacing the first child of the element element with the newElement element.
  * To use this code, you would need to add it to the JavaScript section of your website. You would also need to update the ID of the element that you want to swap the content of.
  * I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.