# Saturday 17th June

Description

* [Back Home](/index.html)
* [Back to AI Chat Log Hub](hub.md)

## Allowing User Annotations

### Prompt
  
* I am building a website using only standard HTML, CSS & JavaScript. How can I implement a functionality that allows the user to annotate the website and have those annotations displayed?

### Answer
  
* To implement a functionality that allows the user to annotate the website and have those annotations displayed, you can use the following steps:
  * Create a HTML element to store the annotations. This element can be a div or a textarea element.
  * Add an event listener to the element to detect when the user clicks on it. When the user clicks on the element, you can use the event listener to open a modal dialog where the user can enter their annotation.
  * When the user clicks on the "Save" button in the modal dialog, you can add the annotation to the element. You can then use CSS to style the annotation to make it stand out from the rest of the text on the page.
* Here is an example of how to implement this functionality:

  ``` html
  <div id="annotations"></div>
  ```

  ``` javascript
  var annotations = document.getElementById("annotations");

  annotations.addEventListener("click", function() {
  var modal = document.createElement("div");
  modal.innerHTML = "<h2>Add Annotation</h2><textarea></textarea>";

  var saveButton = document.createElement("button");
  saveButton.innerHTML = "Save";
  saveButton.addEventListener("click", function() {
      var annotation = modal.querySelector("textarea").value;
      annotations.appendChild(document.createTextNode(annotation));
      modal.style.display = "none";
  });

  modal.appendChild(saveButton);
  document.body.appendChild(modal);

  modal.style.display = "block";
  });
  ```

* This code will create a div element with the id "annotations".
  * When the user clicks on this element, a modal dialog will appear.
  * The user can then enter their annotation in the textarea element in the modal dialog.
  * When the user clicks on the "Save" button, the annotation will be added to the "annotations" element.
  * The modal dialog will then be hidden.
* You can use CSS to style the annotations to make them stand out from the rest of the text on the page.
  * For example, you could use a different color for the annotations
  * Or you could make them bold.
